In this video,
we'll cover adding products to the shopping cart, part one.
So for adding products to the shopping cart, right,
we'll make use of our button their add to cart,
they click on the button,
and it will actually
update our shopping cart status components.
So we'll actually keep track of the total price,
and also the total number of items in the shopping cart.
So just an overview of the entire shopping cart process.
So the first thing that we'll do is
we'll make use the card status components
so on the main page will display the total price
and the quantity.
And then we'll have the cart details page
where we simply list the items in the cart.
We'll add some functionality to the cart details page
where we can add and remove items.
We'll also have a checkout button and a checkout form.
And what we'll do is we'll break this up
into multiple videos in this series.
And what we'll do now is
we'll focus on the the cart status component
where we'll keep track of the total price
and also quantity for the shopping cart.
Alrighty, so here's our development process part one.
So we're going to create this new component
for the cart status component.
We'll add the HTML template for the component.
Next, we'll add a click handler
for the Add to Cart button.
And then we'll update our product list component
with the click handler method.
Already step one of creating the new component
for cart status.
Again, this card status component
will keep track of the total price
and quantity for our shopping cart.
And so we can create the component by making use of that
ng generate component.
And then we give components slash card status.
Now step two of adding the HTML template
for the card status component.
So we add this HTML content here
making use of div and spans.
And so here we have the actual total price for the cart,
and then the actual quantity.
Right now we're hard coding it
but later on, we'll update this dynamically
based on actions from the user.
And then also, we'll make use of the
Font Awesome shopping cart icon.
So remember Font Awesome from earlier
collection of icons here.
So we make use of this icon here for a given shopping cart.
Alrighty, step three of adding a click handler
for the Add to Cart button.
So for our buttons on our product list grid,
we'll have this button here for Add to Cart.
And then we'll add the click handler here.
So on click event, we're going to call this method,
addToCart.
And then we'll pass in the product.
Already, step four, updating the product list component
with a click handler method.
So here's the method addToCart,
they pass in the product.
And right now, all we'll do is
we'll simply log the information.
So I'll say console dot log,
I'll say product dot name, product dot unit price.
We have some more real work to do later,
as far as actually adding it to our cart service.
But for now, we'll just kind of focus on this
and getting this part working.
Alrighty, so this looks pretty good.
Let's go ahead and move into our IDE and let's get started.